♪ [music] ♪
Let's get to actually displaying our
stores. Now that we've added two or three
to our database, we need to show them on
the actual page. Now,
where is that going to happen? It's going
to happen first on the homepage.
Second, it's also going to show when you
visit your store's page directly.
So we need a controller method that's
going to run on both of those routes.
We'll do that right now. We'll say,
"exports.getStores =". That's going to be
a request, and then I have a response.
Then, inside of that let's just say,
"res.render". We're going to render out
the "stores" URL and the title of that is
going to be "Stores". So let's try that
out. We go back to our routes,
index.js, and we'll say "router.get" is no
longer going to be our homepage.
It's now going to be "getStores." So you
see the beauty of this.
Then, it would just duplicate that line.
We'll just hit CMD+SHIFT+E,
and you want to say anytime you visit the
"stores", you also want to run that.
So give that a save. If we refresh that,
it should tell us it doesn't find the
template. There we go, cannot find it. So
let's go and open up our views and make a
new file called "stores.pug". Again, you
can take this over if you want to go to
something like editStore if you just want
to take that and paste it in here.
It extends the layout. We don't need the
store form there. You have a "block
content" h2 title, and take the store form
out. So let's go through that real quick.
When somebody hits our route, which is
either "/" or "/stores",
use the controller method, getStores, for
both of them, which is "getStores".
Then, that will immediately render out the
"stores" URL with just a title called
"Stores". We'll see if that works. There
we go. "Stores" on the homepage.
That works as well on the Stores page.
Both of those pages are working.
Good. Now, that's not all. What we need to
do here is before we get the stores,
we need to first query the database for a
list of all stores before we can actually
show them on the page. So the way that we
do that is very similar to how we saved a
store in the last couple videos. But now,
we're going to be querying the database
for a list of our new stores. So the first
thing we need to do is make this an async
function. When you have an async function,
you must go back to your routes and find
your Store controller, and wrap it in
catchErrors, because we're going to be
using our async/await without any
try-catch here. Good. Go back here,
and we will take our store and we will use
".find". What ".find" will do is it will
query the database for all of them. Now,
there's a whole bunch of different things
we can chain on here to limit and search
for ones that only contain a specific word
in the title. We're going to get into more
queries. But for now,
we're just going to find them all, and
then later we'll come back and do
patching and things like that. So
"Store.find", and how do save that in a
database? Well, we simply say, "const
stores = Store.find". "Store.find" is
going to return a promise. So how do we
wait for "Store.find" to come back before
we actually send data to the user and
render it out? Well, you await it,
"await Store.find", and then on the next
line you should be able to console.log all
the stores. So let's give that a save. I'm
going to open up my terminal here,
clear it out, refresh. Whoa. You see that
it still loads "stores",
but our "console.log" here has
console.logged an array of every single
store that is available to us. So we now
want to take that "stores" variable and
give it to our actually template, so we
can loop over it. The way that we do that
is you simply just pass it the "stores"
property, and we're going to pass it the
"stores" variable. Or if you've taken my
ES6 course, you'll know I've got a little
red underline there. If the property name
is the same as the variable that you are
passing along, so property name is
"stores", the variable that we're passing
along is also "stores", you can simply
just pass the variable.
That will do the same thing as we're doing
there. So if we go back in,
nothing will change. But we can go into
our stores, and maybe do a "pre= h.",
take a dump, sorry, and try to dump our
stores onto the page. What do we got
there? Hey. So if you dump your "stores"
variable, you'll see that before we render
out this page, we quickly hit the database
for an array of all of our stores.
You see the Bakery, the Fish Market, the
test, and Testing 123.
Those are the four that if you go back to
your database here and give it a refresh,
you'll see one, two, three, four. Those
are all of our stores that we have.
Good. Now, how do we loop over all of
that? How do we actually get them
displaying? Well, let's look at that now.
Take out that dump and we're going to give
ourselves a div with a class of "stores",
and then we're going to loop over with
"each store in stores". For each one,
let's just try to give ourselves an h2
"store.name". What's that give us? Here we
go, Bakery, Fish Market,
test, Testing 123. Good. But what we
actually want to do is to shell off this
displaying of each individual stores to a
separate mixin, and I'm going to call that
a "storeCard". We'll go back into our
views, mixins, New File.
We'll call it "_storeCard.pug", and we'll
make a mixin called "mixin storeCard".
It takes in a "store" that will default to
being blank. Then, we will have inside of
that a store which has a ".store__hero".
Inside of that, we're going to have the
image tag with a source that is equal to
backticks, and that is either going to be
"/uploads/". We're going to try to see if
the store has a photo.
You'll know now it doesn't have a photo,
because we haven't done that part yet.
But if it doesn't have a store photo,
we're simply just going to give it
store.png, and that will fall back to
something that I've got in this.
If we go to public, uploads, you'll see
this store.png. This is what we're going
to fall back to if it does not exist.
Store.png, and then also what do we want
to put in there? We want to have an h2
with a class of "title" and we have a link
in there that's going to link to
"a(href=". Now, we need to generate this
URL. So it's going to be backticks
"/store/$", because the store
is going to have a slug. Then, inside of
that, we can use "store.name".
Now, again, let me remind you of how silly
this is. If you want to generate an
attribute like this, you have to use
backticks and the ES6 ${}.
If you want to put a variable inside of
the text content of a node,
you have to use the hash properties.
That's a little bit weird that you have to
know both of those, but you'll get used to
it pretty quickly. So we just made this
mixin here called "storeCard". If we go
back to our stores here,
can we import it really quickly? Yes, we
can. We'll say, "include mixins".
Notice how there's no quotes around here,
"storeCard", because that's the name of
the file. Then, here, instead of having an
h2, we're going to delete that and you
just use our storeCard, which you pass it
all the data it needs,
which is our "store" variable. So woo,
let's see if that works.
Cross your fingers. Beautiful. We've got
our Baker, our test, Fish Market,
and you can click on one of them. It
should actually bring you to the URL.
Obviously, it's still 404. We don't have
that page. But we are now listing out all
of the stores. Now, we can take that a
little bit further out.
Say, we haven't put everything into it. So
let's go back to our storeCard here.
Now, down here, we have our
"store__details". That's just the CSS
class. So again, we're going to have a
"hero", and we're going to have a
"details" as a sibling that. Inside of
that, we'll have a paragraph tag,
which will include the "store.description"
property. Now, if I refresh that,
you'll see that our descriptions are now
popping up inside of our store details
divs. They're all properly spaced like
that. One thing that could possibly happen
is somebody could add a really long store.
So here I can say, "Really Long Store
Name". We get a whole bunch of "lorem
ipsum" here. Someone could add a really
long description in here and save. I
successfully created it, go back to my
Stores page. Now, we've got a bit of a
problem with this really long description
here. So what we could do is say like,
maximum 25 words in our template when
you're viewing a storeCard. That's pretty
good. We can just take description,
and because Pug is just JavaScript, you
can immediately split it on a space.
You can then take that array that it
returns and slice it for the first 25
words. Then, you can join it back together
with a space. That will cut it down to...
Oh, no. All right. Let's see what we've
got here. "Unexpected token." Oh,
you can't do semicolons in Pug. Because
while it is JavaScript,
there are no semicolons in Pug. There we
go. What that did is it trimmed it to 25
words. What happened there? Well, let's
say we have that string here.
So I'll say, "const string" or maybe
"words =" and we'll put it in a string.
So I have our words. If you've split
something on a space, that will give you
an array of all of the words. Here, we
have 50 words. So immediately,
you can take that array and you can slice
it, getting the first to the 25th word,
and that returns us an array with a length
of 25 words. Then, we're going to turn
that array right back into a sentence,
with join with a space again,
and that's a nice quick way to slice a
sentence without slicing it in the middle
of any of your possible words. So you'll
do that quite a bit, where you do have the
data, but you just need to massage it in a
little bit. It's totally fine just to do a
little bit of work inside of your template
when you rather not do it inside of your
controller. So we've got our store details
showing up. Everything is starting to look
pretty good. One last thing is it's
looking a little bit squished here,
and that's because we haven't added the
store actions just yet,
and that's going to allow us to heart and
favorite, and remove all of those things.
So what we want to do here is just go
inside of your "hero". The first line,
give yourself a "store__actions" and
inside of that you can just give yourself
a button that says "Soon". Then, what that
will do is it'll put us a little button
there. Eventually, we're going to come
back and change that out and that'll kick
in the CSS, so things start to look a lot
better. So that is looping over all of our
data. Again, let's review that real quick.
We have a route which calls our getStores
controller. Our Stores controller is
responsible for two things.
It's going to get the data, and then it's
going to pass the data to our template,
which will then in turn be used in a mixin
and a template, to loop over and explain
all of that data. You can take those
console.logs out. It sort of muddies up
your actual terminal window. Refresh.
Good. We're in good shape.
I'll see you in the next one.
♪ [music] ♪